Beth -- Chicago Teacher: Jewish school in North Side of the city
        Science coordinator, 8th grade Science teacher
        Former Science educator at Field Museum

Dianna -- Worked with her in the past

Joe/ann -- Female teacher


Wallcology -- Running in Chicago and Toronto
            3 months!

            Ecology or Evolution?
              +            -

              previously ++ Manipulate the environmnetal variables
                                look at effect of those maniulations on the vegitation,
                                        and food webs

Knowledge Community -- Build the knowledge of the group, rather than the individual
                        Toronto beleives this is a modality of learning


                        Create an honest need for information from other people
                        Want to make the kids interested, while still enabling them

                        Community learning

                        Food Web
                            - two or three species of vegitation
                            - 4 - 6 critters
                            + each habitat has a unique starting

                            habitat with green and yellow bugs, with green bug is top


                            changes in populations overt? Or covert?


The danger of going TOO abstract is it looses the feel of nature and becomes a game


Teachers are pro evolution:
    Tom is not so much

Happy to keep it ecology based: 6th graders dont know enough about ecology!


Little Labs:
    Each group has some non-uniform distribution of critters.


    Prey characteristics match enviornment. Incidental features versus central


Features:
    - Lifecycles

    + Run experiments
        + Temperature Change
        + Be able to
    + Monetary value to the experiemnts that they run
        + Will encourage them to pay attention

        Biodiversity begets biodiversity
        More Biodiversity means more productivity
        Less Biodiversity means less productivity

        Ecosystem services going on behind the scenes
            If X is healthy, Y is going to be healthy

        Eggs, critters have babies?

        Local resource projections? AKA Plants

        Predators have an approach distance, when a predator comes into range of
            the predator, if it can detect it, it will move away or run away



Food Webs?
    Things need to die, turn into dirt, so other things can eat it


Diferent walls have different climates/food webs
Pair this activity with outdoor experinces in the real-world


Mapping of the Scientific conceptual domain
    + Food Web
    + Enviornmental conditions
    + Patterns/Shapes of Food webs
    + Science that they can safely reach
    + Learning Goals

Learning Games


Current Idea
    4 Identical Wall Zones
    Different collections of species in these different zones

    Name these critters



Try not to be a game....


Nutella
    agent based systems



Deadline:
    July 5th:- Deadline for Narrative
    Describe what people are doing in the classroom...
    Map out the space of the critters, which wall has which critters

    Run Dates?
        Mid September +/- two weeks


One bot

One room scope

One class/object per bug.
    ThreeJs?

Data collection methods?
    iPad app?
    direct logging component?
    knowledge building


Partial orderings to full orderings
    A > B > C so A > C


